Let's talk about generators.
A very important key term and quite an advanced topic.
What are they generators are available in Python and allow us to generate a sequence of values over
time.
What does that mean.
Well it's export.
You see we've actually learned a generator before.
Do you remember range.
Well range is a generator but what is that a generator is a special type of thing in Python that allows
us to use a special keyword called yield.
And it can pause and resume functions.
So let me demonstrate this with a nice little example.
You see when we use something like range vs. something like list let's say we convert a range into a
list like so a list.
What it does is actually create a giant list let's say of 100 items in memory in our computers memory
versus a range it creates them one by one let me show you if I create a function let's call it make
list and this make list is going to accept a number and this make list well we'll say result equals
an empty array.
Then I'm going to say for i in range of n we're going to add result dot append and let's just multiply
it for fun AI times to.
And then finally we return the result you see when we make a list like we just did here we're essentially
doing this we're using range to create a list and return result which will live in memory so let's say
that here with make list I'm going to say my list is going to equal make list one hundred when I print
my list and I click Run go and make sure my parameter here is the right name and make sure I can spell
append
we get our list but this list over here lives in our memory.
My list is pointing to a location in memory.
So this is taking up space right now.
Now range is a generator and a generator is a little bit different because this is not being held a
memory.
When we do this for loop this range doesn't create on its own a giant list of let's say 0 to ninety
nine and then it starts iterating no with the for loop it's going to say hey as a range I'm going to
give you first the number zero then I'm going to give you the number one then number two the number
three the number four all the way to one hundred.
So in memory it never ever creates this list like we have with while my list and this can get pretty
hectic right let's say we want to create a giant list now let's say that I want to create a list with
well this entire array if I wanted to say print here this giant list and I click Run oh boy you see
that that's a lot of memory that I'm using up and once it's done which it's still gone.
Only then can I use this list and it's going to access that list in memory and then we're able to use
it a more efficient way is to use a generator and actually generate these wanted a time without taking
space in memory now in order for us to learn how to do that with generators and how to actually use
them we need to go to the next lesson and revisit some old knowledge I'm going to let this complete
in the meantime I'll see you in the next video by.